Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this studio here, we are going to be covering the last topic of this section.
That is Ruby Barock.
So we already have covered Ruby blocks and Ruby lambdas.
And if you understood those topics, well, then this topic is going to be much more easy because it
is basically related to both the previous topics we have already covered.
So what is are will be a proc object is an encapsulation of a block of code which can be stored in a
local variable past, do a method or another proc and can be called.
Bronk is an essential concept in Ruby and it is a core of its functional programming features.
If you talk about the syntax for how it is going to be used, then you can see it right on your screens.
And the basic difference basically between Ruby lambdas and Ruby Brocks is the syntax using which they
have to be initialized because in the lambdas you have to write in Lembo here and in here you have to
write in proc dot new over here.
And the remaining block over here, which is associated with this block, is basically the very same.
You can use any kind of variable over here.
The only difference come right over here.
So Starboy lambdas.
And the Bronx basically are almost the same with the difference of this index, right?
Well, so let's see some examples and we will also cover a lot of advanced topics that are related with
Brocks.
So let's just move on to Adam.
So to initialize the simplest of all Brog, all you can do is that you can just write and.
The are all or just right BRC and we are going to make it equal to.
Barock Dort new, and we are going to specify these brackets here and in here, you can just write in
anything you want to and you will start to call it using the call method to underwriting PRC dot call
around this code and you can see that my name has got printed.
So as you can see that it has basically the very same functioning as in case of lambdas, because blogs
are basically not objects, but they can be converted into objects of class proc.
This can be done by calling the lamda method of the class object a blog created with Lambda acts like
a Ruby method.
If you don't specify the right number of arguments, you can call the block.
Barock objects are block of code that have been found to a set of local variables.
And basically, the only difference between these two is the syntax where it matters, so, as I told
you, that prox is a very similar concept.
There is no dedicated lambda clause.
A lambda is just a special proc object.
If you take a look at the instanced methods from Barock, you will notice that there is a LAMDA method
as well.
Now a broad behaves differently than a lambda, especially when it comes to arguments or how it is done.
So for example, you have this very same barocco here that is Bercy equal to Prague new.
And you are expecting, let's say, two arguments we are going to write in bars.
Well, here we are going to write an ex, Carmeli, which are going to serve as the two arguments that
are going to pass in to this function.
So in case of Lambda, you know that if you don't pass in these two arguments to this function, it
is going to generate the argument error and it is going to say that it is expecting two arguments and
the arguments are zero.
So in this case, as I told you earlier as well, when I was covering the lambda topic, that Brocks
do not have any kind of strict implementations on the number of arguments.
So in here, if I just write in votes or Marrawah here, you know that it is expecting two arguments.
If I don't pass in any kind of argument over here on this score, it is going to run completely fine.
But if I just convert it into LAMDA now, I run the score.
You can see that it has generated an error that says wrong number of arguments given zero expected to,
and that is known as argument error.
So that is where basically products and lambdas are different.
Another difference between proc and Lambda is how they react to a written statement.
Now a lambda will return non-moral normally like a regular method, as you have seen in the previous
tutorial as well.
But a proc will try to return from the current context.
So if you just have an example of this, we will just remove this from here and we will have one lambda
and one proc and we will see how the lambda is going to work, whereas the proc is going to raise an
exception.
So we are going to just write in votes or I guess we don't need this.
We are going to just write in my.
Lebedko, and that is going to be stable and also we are going to ride in this Syntex Oakhill and in
this braggarts we are going to simply ride in the simplest statement that is written one.
And down here we are going to ride in boats.
Lamda Reserved.
Is and we are going to use interpolation and I'm going to call in the LAMDA using the call function,
so I'm going to write in my landlord a hill.
And that should work very perfectly fine, as you can see that the result is and it has returned the
value that is one.
So that's why one has been put in to try to help.
Now, if I use the very same thing for the program, I'm going to write in my underscore rock.
Equal to rock dot new.
And I use the very same statement that I had used in case of LAMDA, that was right on one and down
here I'm going to write in Votes Barock.
Result is a colon and interpolation of a hair, and I'm going to just write in my.
Underscore Barock dot God, so apparently you can see that they are exactly the same with the only difference
with the syntax.
This is baroque and this is a stab.
Elmdale will help run the score and you can see that it has generated nothing of a hill.
So in case of the lambda, it has generated the result.
But in case of the proc, it has not generated any kind of result for me.
So that is also a big difference between Brocks and lambdas.
Now, if the Baroque was inside a method, then calling Ricciardone would be equivalent to returning
from that method.
For example, if I just initialize a baroque inside a method and then call that method and then inside
that method, I call in that Krog, then it is going to behave something different.
So we will just remove this stuff from here.
And we will define a function that is called Barock.
And inside that function, what I'm going to do is that I'm going to write in inputs.
Just before calling for OK, and I'm going to initialize a brocco here, that is going to be my proc
and it is going to equal to proc dot new and I'm going to just write and return one.
And I'm going to call in my underscore, Brock.
Don't call it a hill.
And down here, I'm going to write in.
Not down here, I'm going to ride in boats.
After the.
Rock God, and I'm going to just end dysfunction now, what I to do over here is that I have also to
call and function.
So what I'm going to do is that I'm going to just write an.
Call.
Underscore.
Brock, just run this code and it says that it is some kind of undefined calling.
Yes, we don't have to specify the here.
I don't know why I specified this.
Now, run this code.
All right, so say Scott Rock, undefined method that is calling.
All right.
This has not to be calling.
This has to be called now.
Run it.
And you can see that it has just written just before calling Brock.
And after that, nothing has got printed.
If I just write and feel here and now run this code, you can see that it is just before calling Brock.
And it has also returned me one since the written statement had worked.
That's why this statement over here does not get executed.
Now, what is the purpose of EOWA here is basically it is going to just tell you that it is a function
which has also got some kind of brog in it.
So it is going to call that function and it is also going to return the statements.
And after the written statement, since when you know that a written statement is called, any kind
of lines up to that inside that very specific blogs are going to get ignored.
So that's why this statement of error does not get executed.
And if you don't specify this Beaverhead, this means that it does not know if it has a Brocklehurst
or not.
It is going to just exit from and it is not going to return anything.
But if you just write and Picolo here, it is going to then return the value, which if you were outside
the function would not have returned because as you have seen in a previous example, we have just got
word, you know, that if you just initialize it outside the function, it does not return to anything.
The lambda does return the one, but Brocks does not return to anything.
But if you use it inside the function, use this be called broncho here, then it is going to, as you
can see, return the value and any statements of that are not going to get executed.
So to give you a summary of how barracks and lambdas are different, there are three major differences.
The first one is.
That lambdas are defined and established in tax and products with the product news and tax.
The second difference is that Dr. done from the current method, Wallum does return from the lamda itself.
And the third difference is that Brocks don't care about the correct number of arguments.
While lambdas will raise an exception.
If you specify the wrong number of arguments, if it is expecting to, then you have to pass to do Alamdar
else that is going to generate the exception error.
So taking a look at this list, we can see that lambdas are a lot closer to our regular method than
products are.
Then comes the concept of closure's now Ruby Brocks and lambdas also have another special attribute.
When you create a Ruby Brocke, it captures the current execution scope that now you have the concept
of lawyers with Lando's only and you know how that works.
Now, this concept, which is sometimes called chloramine, that a Brockville carries with it the values
like local variables and methods from the context where it was defined.
They don't carry the actual values, but a reference to them.
So if the variable change after the Brog is created, the proc will always have the latest version,
the very same as it goes with lambdas.
So if you have, let's say, this very same functional Wajir.
And in that function, we have, let's say, a count variable that is, let's say two and down here,
I just write in my.
Brock Dargon.
And after that function, what I'm going to write and I'm going to initialize this account to one and
I'm going to initialize my broncho here, so I'm going to write in my proc equals to proc dot new and
I'm going to write in votes count here and down here.
I'm going to call this function be called Barock and I'm going to pass in the Barock as an argument
to this function called proctological.
And it is also going to receive that.
So I'm going to write in my barocco here as well.
So if I now just run the score, then you can see that you have got one.
And also in this example, we have a local variable which is set to one.
We also have a dog named my proc and a call proc method, which runs we are called method.
Now, any Broch Orlando that is passed in as an argument.
So what do you think that the output should have been generated?
It seems it would seem like that two is the most logical conclusion, but it because of the closure
property fact, this will print one, as you can see, on the atom.
Now, this happens because the product is using the value of gone from the place where the proc was
defined.
And that is outside of the method definition, which is right here.
If you have any kind of value over here, let's say three, run this code, then it is going to have
that value.
And the reason behind this is that the proc is using the value of gone from place where the proc was
defined, which is right over here.
And that is outside of the method definition since so that why it is going to treat this count as the
value.
And when you write in my product call or you just write inputs account to whatever, it is going to
treat this as the value.
Now, if you have this Barock, let's say.
You just remove from here and you have this broken here, you don't have to pass and now this.
Just remove this and we will initialize this at the top here so that.
It knows that it has some kind of variable control here as well.
Now, if you just run this code, you can see that it has generated error that says undefined local
variable or method, my brog.
All right.
So this has to be, I guess, down here, not after this, because the definition comes first, then
comes the calling number on this.
And you can see that now it has printed the value that is inside because.
That value is going to get printed where the proc is defined.
So now the brokers sense defined inside the function.
So that's why the count variable that is inside the function and any kind of value that is inside the
function is going to get printed.
And this value is now going to get ignored simply.
But if this was outside, as in the previous case, then the value called equal Equilar three was printing
because it is going to get the value where the proc was defined and that can be inside the function
and that can be outside the function.
Now comes the binding clause.
So where do Ruby, Brocks and Lamda store this scope information?
Now let me tell you about the binding clause.
When you create a binding object via the binding method, you are creating an anchor to this point in
the code.
Now, every variable method and class defined at this point will be available literally the object,
even if you are in a completely different school.
So we will just remove this from here and we will define a function that is basically.
Don, finding a way here and what this function is going to have is that we are going to initialize
account variable over here as well.
That is going to be Hundert.
And then we are going to write in binding or help.
Not written binding, we are going to have binding over here and then we are going to end this function.
But now what we are going to do down here is that we are going to write in votes.
Written binding dot glass.
And what we are also going to do is that we are going to write input's.
Return binding dot evaluate and we are going to write in the variable we want to evaluate that is count
in our case.
So basically the count is available thanks to the binding, even though we are outside of the method
where it was defined.
So if you try to print the count directly, you will get an error.
The reason is that count was never defined outside of the method.
So down here, if you just write inputs.
Go ahead, and this variable over here is going to generate error because this is the variable that
is defined inside the function, and if you try to access it outside the function, then this is totally
not going to work.
So to make it work, work you have to do is that you have to do something like this.
So if you just run this code, you can see that this has generated an error that says expecting it up
and put or something like that.
Yes, I guess we have missed something.
A hill.
This has to be the end statement, not written binding, and I guess everything is perfectly in order.
Now run this court, you can see that it has generated the error that says undefined local variable
or method name counts.
So for now, let's just remove it to see the output of these two lines clearly run the score and you
can see that you're combining and you have got Hundert now.
So here that is Ridgen binding DOT class.
It has written that the class of this function will help.
So the class of this function is a binding class.
Since it is, it has got this binding overhead.
So that's why it is a binding class.
So it has a written binding.
And then if you want to extend this variable, then you have to do it using this written binding here
you have to evaluate the count variable and that is going to generate the value of the.
So if you want to access the variable outside the scope of a function, then thanks to binding, you
can do it outside the method as well, where it is not defined at all, because as you can see, that
it is not defined outside the block and you are accessing it, but you can use the binding concept.
So now let's move on to the second part.
That was to access this run.
This an error is going to get generated.
So the excess is you have to use the L and you have to use the binding conceptual hell.
So in other words, execution sometimes, sometimes under the context of a binding object is the same
as if that court was in the same place where that binding was defined.
Remember the anchor metaphor.
You don't need to use the binding objects directly, but it's still good to know that this is a thing
that you can use in Ruby.
So I guess that's it.
We have already covered the school.
We have covered closure.
We have understood the difference between the prox and lenders.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial as well.
I hope you have understood all the three topics we have covered in this section that will be Bloks.
Then we have covered Ruby lambdas and finally we have covered Ruby Prox.
All these were detailed stories in which we have start from the basics of each topic and we have covered
a lot of advanced topics related to all these three topics.
So I guess that's it with this story.
Let's start with this section.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next section with a very more interesting topic.
So bye bye till then.